Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
Ans:- A programming language defines a set of instructions that are compiled together to perform
a specific task by the CPU.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Ans:- The JDK includes the Java Runtime Environment (JRE), an interpreter (java), a compiler (javac),
an archiver (jar), a documentation generator (javadoc), and some other development tools.
The Java Runtime Environment itself consists of the Java Virtual Machine (JVM), supporting files,
and core classes

What is IDE?
Ans:-  IDE, or Integrated Development Environment, is a software application that combines all of the
features and tools needed by a software developer. Examples of IDEs include NetBeans, Eclipse, IntelliJ.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Ans:- 1. Eclipse
      2, IntelliJ
      3. NetBeans
      4. JDeveloper
      5. MyEclipse

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Ans:- Life cycle of a java program tells us what happens right from the point when we type source
code in a text editor to the point that source code is converted into machine code (0’s and 1’s).

 There are three main stages in the life cycle of a java program. They are:

1. Editing the program-First, you will start with typing the program in a text-editor or IDE.
After completing editing of the program, we have to save the file. While saving the file
that the file must be saved with .java extension.
2. Compiling the source code- The name of the Java compiler is javac. The input to the compiler is
Java source code which is available in Sample.java. The output of the compiler is machine independent
or platform independent code which is known as bytecode. The file which is generated after compilation
is .class file.
3. Executing the byte code- The bytecode generated by the compiler will be executed by Java Virtual
Machine (JVM). Input to the JVM is bytecode and output is machine code (0’s and 1’s) which will be
executed by the CPU of the local machine.

what is class?
Ans:- A class is a user defined blueprint or prototype from which objects are created. It represents
the set of properties or methods that are common to all objects of one type

What is object?
Ans:- Java object is a combination of data and procedures working on the available data.

What is the entry point of an application?
Ans:- A Java application is a public Java class with a main() method. The main() method is the entry
point into the application.

Why main is static?
Ans:-Java main() method is always static, so that compiler can call it without the creation of an object
or before the creation of an object of the class. Static method of a class can be called by using the
class name only without creating an object of a class.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Ans:- Object class is the root or superclass of the all class.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Ans:- Path: Path is used define where the system can find the executables(.exe) files.
      Classpath: classpath is used to specify the location . class files.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Ans:- Interfaces can only have constants and methods stubs.
      Abstract classes can have constants, members, method stubs (without a body) and defined methods.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
Ans:- No we can not make any object from Interface and Abstract class, but To create object of
an abstract class just use new just like creating objects of other non abstract classes with
just one small difference.

what is Access Specifier?
Ans:- Access specifiers define how the members (attributes and methods) of a class can be accessed.
Private - members cannot be accessed from outside the class.
Protected - members cannot be accessed from outside the class, however, they can be accessed in
            inherited classes.
Public- members can be accessed from outside of the class.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Ans:- OOP stands for Object-Oriented Programming.
    1) Encapsulation-Encapsulation in Java is a process of wrapping code and data together into a single
    unit.
    2) Inheritance- Inheritance in Java is a mechanism in which one object acquires all the properties
    and behaviors of a parent object.
    3) Polymorphism- Polymorphism in Java is a concept by which we can perform a single action in
    different ways.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Ans:- Java compiler imports java. lang package internally by default. It provides the fundamental
classes that are necessary to design a basic Java program.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Ans:-API is the acronym for Application Programming Interface.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
Ans:- java does not support multiple inheritances through classes but through the interfaces, we can
use multiple inheritances . Java doesn't support multiple inheritance directly because it leads to
overriding of methods when both extended class have a same method name.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Ans:- Method Overloading is a feature that allows a class to have more than one method having the same
name, if their argument lists are different. Overloading occurs when two or more methods in one class
have the same method name but different parameters.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Ans:- The Exception Handling in Java is one of the powerful mechanism to handle the runtime errors so
that normal flow of the application can be maintained. Exception handling ensures that the flow of the
program doesn't break when an exception occurs.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
Ans:-  The keyword static indicates that the particular member belongs to a type itself, rather
than to an instance of that type.  It is a keyword which is used to share the same variable or
method of a given class. Basically, static is used for a constant variable or a method that is
same for every instance of a class.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Ans:- The final keyword can be used while declaring an entity. Using the final keyword means that the
value can't be modified in the future. This entity can be - but is not limited to - a variable, a class
or a method.

What is final, finally and finalize?
Ans:- Final:- class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't
      be changed.
      Finally:- is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not.
      Finalize:- is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.

What is a constructor?
Ans:- A constructor in Java is a special method that is used to initialize objects. The constructor is
called when an object of a class is created.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Ans:- There can be multiple constructors in a class. But the parameter list of the constructors should
not be same. This is known as constructor overloading.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Ans:- All java classes have at least one constructor. If a class does not explicitly declare any, the
Java compiler automatically provides a no-argument constructor, called the default constructor.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
Ans:- The this keyword refers to the current object in a method or constructor.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
Ans:-The super keyword refers to superclass (parent) objects. It is used to call superclass methods,
and to access the superclass constructor.

What is JVM stand for ?
Ans:-The Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
Ans:- JVM is platform dependent because it takes java byte code and generates byte code for the current
operating system.

What version of java are you using?
Ans:- java version "1.8.0_281"
      Java(TM) SE Runtime Environment (build 1.8.0_281-b09)
      Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM (build 25.281-b09, mixed mode)

What is JAR stand for ?
Ans:- JAR stands for Java ARchive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Ans:-JDK:- 1. JDK is a software development kit.
           2. The full form of JDK is Java Development Kit.
     JVM:- 1. JVM is an environment for executing bytecode.
           2. The full form of JVM is Java Virtual Machine.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Ans:- JVM:- 1. JVM is an environment for executing bytecode.
            2. The full form of JVM is Java Virtual Machine.
      JRE:- 1. JRE is a software bundle that allows Java program to run.
            2. The full form of JRE is Java Runtime Environment.

What is compile time and run time?
Ans:- Compile time is when the program is compiled.
      Runtime is when it executes.

What is heap?
Ans:- A heap is a tree-based data structure in which all the nodes of the tree are in a specific order.

How java manage it's memory?
Ans:- Java, memory management is the process of allocation and de-allocation of objects, called Memory
management. Java does memory management automatically. Java uses an automatic memory management system
called a garbage collector.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Ans:- 1. String is immutable whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable classes.
      2. StringBuffer is thread-safe and synchronized whereas StringBuilder is not. That’s why
      StringBuilder is faster than StringBuffer.
      3. String concatenation operator (+) internally uses StringBuffer or StringBuilder class.
      4. For String manipulations in a non-multi threaded environment, we should use StringBuilder
      else use StringBuffer class.

What is Singleton class?
Ans:- A singleton class is a class that can have only one object at a time per JVM instance.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Ans:- serialization allows us to convert the state of an object into a byte stream, which then can be
saved into a file on the local disk or sent over the network to any other machine. And deserialization
allows us to reverse the process, which means reconverting the serialized byte stream to an object again.

when to use transient variable in java?
Ans:- The transient keyword in Java is used to avoid serialization. If any object of a data structure is
defined as a transient , then it will not be serialized. Serialization is the process of converting an
object into a byte stream.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
Ans:- While loop executes the code block only if the condition is True. In Java Do While loop, the
condition is tested at the end of the loop. So, the Do While executes the statements in the code block
at least once even if the condition Fails.

What is Enum?
Ans:- An enum is a special "class" that represents a group of constants (unchangeable variables,
like final variables). To create an enum , use the enum keyword (instead of class or interface),
and separate the constants with a comma.

What is Iterator?
Ans:- An Iterator is an object that can be used to loop through collections.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Ans:- int is a primitive data type which takes 32 bits(4 bytes) to store.
      Integer is an object which takes 128 bits (16 bytes) to store int value.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
Ans:- The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in the String pool.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Ans:- Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with
respect to current object. Within same class: It can be done using this() keyword for constructors in
same class.From base class: by using super() keyword to call constructor from the base class.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Ans:- A serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one garbage collector thread for
the garbage collector operation, while a parallel collector uses multiple garbage collector threads for
the garbage collector operation.

What is JIT stands for?
Ans:- The Just-In-Time.
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Ans:- Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may
increase or decrease in size while the application runs. When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected.
During the garbage collection objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Ans:- No, Garbage collection does not guarantee that a program will not run out of memory. The purpose of
garbage collection (GC) is to identify and discard objects that are no longer needed by a Java program,
so that their resources can be reclaimed and reused.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Ans:- Stack space is mainly used for storing order of method execution and local variables. Stack always
stored blocks in LIFO order whereas heap memory used dynamic allocation for allocating and deallocating
memory blocks. Memory allocated to the heap lives until one of the following events occurs : Program terminated.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
Ans:- Reflection is a feature in the Java programming language. It allows an executing Java program to
examine or introspect upon itself, and manipulate internal properties of the program.

what is multithreading in java?
Ans:- Multithreading in Java is a process of executing two or more threads simultaneously to maximum
utilization of CPU. Multithreaded applications execute two or more threads run concurrently.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
Ans:- Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive access to a shared resource
with multiple threads in Java.
What is Framework?
Ans:- A framework or software framework, is a platform for developing software applications.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
Ans:- 1. JBehave, 2. JUnit, 3. Serenity. 4. TestNG. 5. Selenide.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
Ans:- JUnit is an open-source framework used to trigger and write tests. TestNG is a Java-based framework
that is an upgraded option for running tests. JUnit does not support to run parallel tests. TestNG can
run parallel tests.

What are the dependencies for this project?
Ans:-A project dependency is a logical, constraint-based or preferential relationship between two
activities or tasks such that the completion or the initiation of one is reliant on the completion or
initiation of the other.

what is dependency injection in java?
Ans:- Dependency Injection in Java is a way to achieve Inversion of control in our application by moving
objects binding from compile time to runtime.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Ans:- Static binding uses Type information for binding while Dynamic binding uses Objects to resolve
binding. Overloaded methods are resolved using static binding while overridden methods using dynamic binding at run time.








